
		  CS5765. Computer Vision. Spring 2013

			Programming Assignment 4

			Deadline 2: April 05, 2013

This assignment is to study recognition and associated concepts
hands-on. This assignment is to be done in the same teams of 2 as the
previous one.  You have to implement a standard object recognition
pipeline and test its performance on different datasets for this
assignment.


Implement search/recognition of images using two methods for about 10
categories from the Caltech 101 dataset
(www.vision.caltech.edu/Image_Datasets/Caltech101/).  The categories to
be included are now posted on the courses portal as Resource #12.

Method 1:
  The first method is the popular Bag-of-Words (BoW) based image
  search/retrieval method.  The BoW method represents each image using
  descriptors evaluated in a dense manner from an image. SIFT, SURF,
  HoG, and other descriptors can be used. The descriptor vectors are
  quantized to set of visual words using a clustering technique. Each
  image is then represented as a document vector which is the histogram
  of visual words. Images in the database are represented using these
  vectors and an inverted index is made of them. The document vector is
  extracted from each query image and matched against candidate images
  using the index. They have to be ranked and the top 8 images have to
  be displayed.

  Tasks involved:

   1. Extract descriptors from a good subset of the images (30 from each
      category)

   2. Build the dictionary or vocabulary using clustering.

   3. Build document vectors for each image and index them.

   4. During query time, extract images using the document vector of the
      query image.

   5. Rank them and display them in ranked order.

   6. Try the same with SURF, HOG, etc., and compare the results.


 Method 2:
  Global features and a classifier will be used for the other method.
  The tasks involved are:

  1. Extract global description about the image using the GIST feature.

  2. Using the training data for each category, train an SVM classifier.
     One versus rest strategy will work fine since SVM is a binary
     classifier.

  3. During query phase, extract the description of the query image.
     Classify it into the appropriate class using the classifier built.

  4. Compare your results with those from Method 1.

  Try out Method 2 with the PHOG descriptor. Also, try Neural Networks
  as a classifier. ANNs can be trained for all classed together.


  The VLFeat repository contains libraries for most of the above steps.
  You should use the code, but understand what is going on at each step
  and why.

  You have to build a web-based interface using which someone can upload
  an arbitrary image for which you should show the top 8 matches.

  You have to estimate precision, recall, and average precision of your
  scheme using a large number of test images from the same dataset. The
  query is considered successful if one of the 8 matches contains an
  image from the same category.

  You should produce a comprehensive report on your findings from these
  experiments. Comprehension of the process is the key take away from
  this assignment.

